we're gonna talk about money in politics
we're gonna talk about the dynamic way
in which collecting donations for a
cause changes everything the particular
examples we're dealing with may involve
YouTube may involve this unique website
called patreon may or may not involve
veganism but let me tell you sign folks
a lot of the lessons that are gonna be
described in this video could apply
almost any cause almost any movement
almost any youtuber so if you're not
vegan you've never seen this channel
before give me five minutes of your time
let's see where this goes if we're gonna
talk about the problems of the money
motive in politics one of the most
important things is that we start off
being honest about what we are
contrasting it to it's deceptively easy
to tell yourself that there is a world
of real politics that's separate from
world of fake politics the fake world
being entirely created by the
motivations that money bring into the
game the influence money has on politics
can't be used to separate something real
from something fake people give
donations to reveal causes all the time
if you read your local newspaper even
something relatively corny like a young
girl gets hit by a car and people donate
money to try to help her this kind of
response to a human tragedy people
figure out that the sewage being dumped
in the ocean makes it unsafe to go
swimming and people start to gather
money together to try to lobby City Hall
or the provincial Parliament or somebody
try to improve water quality there can
be completely sincere ecological
movements of this kind where money's
involved for money is of decisive
influence and indeed when you look into
at any particular case it may just be a
very small number of wealthy people or
even just one millionaire who has a
decisive voice in it and that does not
mean your political cause is fake the
influence of money is not the difference
between something fake and something
real I'd like to point out by contrast
if we were talking about architecture
now I'm using architecture as an example
I could instead say art or fashion it's
not the case that we can say Oh over
here is the world of real architecture
the pursuit of an aesthetic ideal the
exploration of ideas about structure and
form and how to house people and how to
design a shopping mall how to design a
church that takes place on a piece of
paper with a pencil it's a purely
philosophical exploration of what
architecture could be should be ought to
be and then over here there's this
separate corrupt world of money being
paid for buildings to be great in the
real world no no this is really the
opposite in a sense you can say the
people who just sit down and fantasize
about what buildings ought to be with
pencil and paper the people who don't
care about what the free market demands
but what customers demand whether
they're building a mall or a church or
homes for people that in a sense the
purely abstract pursuit of architecture
philosophically on a chalkboard or the
realm of ideas that in a sense that's
fake that in many ways the reality of
what architecture isn't ought to be is
exactly in the interplay between these
two things that you do have theoretical
and S that I can even philosophical
considerations but that the real-world
considerations that normally do make
themselves felt the people become aware
of because of money because of the
pressure to make money and of
architecture that this is actually
something real and positive without an
appreciation for which we're not really
talking about architecture again we
could say the same of fashion so on and
so forth but there's a second
distinction I want to bring in here
there's a difference between
architecture and talking about
architecture so there are the companies
that actually are involved in the design
and construction but then there's
another world of critics people who
appreciate architects
people who want to discuss and debate
what the future of architecture should
be of course the history of architecture
which buildings were successful or
failures in what way learning from those
mistakes and indeed to some extent
they're probably going to want to
entertain questions that come out of a
purely ideal or idealize or idealizing
view of what architecture could or
should be there's gonna be some
philosophical discussion there now if I
were to ask you where's the money at
in this distinction is there more money
in architectural appreciation
architectural criticism Architectural
Digest magazine Architectural journalism
or let's just say also architectural
documentary filmmaking people making
films with orange is there more money in
that world or in steel and concrete
actually designing then building
structures shopping malls houses
churches we all know where the money is
at and here's the problem for many of us
involved in charity work
politics aspirations to make the world a
better place vegan or non-vegan it's the
exact opposite all the money is in
talking about politics or making
documentary films about politics and
none of the money isn't actually making
the difference in the real world so
veganism being an example we have a
situation where somebody can film
themselves just even having a fight in
the street yelling it so maybe even I've
seen examples this film themselves
having a fight with their own parents
having a dispute talking about veganism
they can upload this to the internet and
ask for donations and do fundraising
these types of short film clips can
really be your whole career we have many
many examples of vegans now on patreon
and so on earning several thousand
dollars from
month they have a well-funded career but
it's not for veganism itself neither
veganism as a political enterprise nor
in terms of actually cooking food or
baking cookies or or say you know real
world example might be actually helping
the homeless helping poverty stricken
field by making vegan food and giving
them for free can imagine doing
fundraisers or anything like that it's
all that money is going into talking
about veganism talking about politics
not actually doing politics again the
difference being like making short films
about architecture as opposed to actual
architectural firms now whom there are
many reasons why of course this is an
asymmetrical and unfair comparison
veganism ultimately is an ethical
argument to some extent in ecological
argument to some extent of health
argument but it's not productive in the
same way that building a shelter for
people to sleep in is going to be
productive and generate revenue I
understand but have set up some
distinctions here about what's real and
what's fake
that I think often get ignored and
people are very quick to throw insults
at one another about what's authentic
and what's inauthentic what's well
motivated and what's not well motivated
what's real and what's fake
without thinking these things over so if
we're going to talk about the influence
of money in politics we have to have
something to contrast it to and this is
the contrast I'd like to introduce to
you my audience which is actually the
issue of love it's a very cold kind of
love I'm talking about this video so I'm
going to coin the phrase cold love in
parallel to cold charity cold charity is
an old term in in political science if I
sit down and talk with my own mother
this has happened I saw my mother eating
two eggs for breakfast and I happen to
know this offhand if she's just one egg
she's already at
a hundred percent of her maximum daily
dose of cholesterol it's eating just one
whole egg a day is not advisable in
terms of human health
you know I'm vegan so I am biased but
still just cholesterol alone it's a huge
issue in terms health and when we're
sitting there and talking to her and
saying you know you're killing yourself
I mean I'm just looking at you eating
breakfast right now and you're putting
yourself into an early grave you know
now is that motivated by love again it's
a very cold very peculiar form of love
but when we get into these arguments
whether they're about health whether
about pure ethics or ecology or a
combination of all three this is
something that's incredibly easy to lose
sight of especially in our era when
these discussions are being monetized
when they're the basis for fundraising
when they're actually being packaged as
a product as a film clip as a kind of
low-level documentary to generate
revenue directly through YouTube and
donations through through patreon I see
a lot of street activism and even if
it's not rude or reproachful or hateful
it does not come from this place of love
I talked about this on my channel
meeting more like two years ago I can
remember discussions about this issue of
the importance of the role of love in
politics and it came up briefly but
dramatically in my debate with Maude
vegan about drug policy where I really
challenged her asking when you were
talking about legislating about making
drugs legal illegal and so on the ethics
of drug policy are you really thinking
about this with a sense of love for the
addicts themselves because it sounded to
me like she was talking about passing
laws with the attitude of just letting
these people die or even wanting them to
die off as quickly as possible it's kind
of very
callous indifference to their deaths as
opposed to wanting to do what's in their
best interest acting with a kind of love
in principle that I think a legislator
has to have towards his or her people so
this measure this has come up before let
me give you a somewhat salacious but I
think useful example hypothetically
let's say you meet up and talk to a
distant cousin someone you haven't
talked to you in five years it could be
a cousin could be a co-worker but I mean
somebody you don't know very well but
someone you know for a long time and
it's sitting and talking about what's
been going on in his life since you last
seen him what you discover is that he
has really he's boasting he's boasting
about what he's been doing in his
private life and he's fallen into the
habit of getting women drunk plying
women with alcohol going out and
drinking and then when these women are
asleep when they've passed out from
drinking so much having sex with him and
for him and for his circle of friends or
the few people he's told this to he
perceives this as completely normal now
for many people watching this video of
both genders this is not a completely
hypothetical example many people in
different cultures you will have
encountered someone with these these
attitudes now let's say you're having
this conversation with your distant
cousin and you decide you're really
gonna try to challenge his assumptions
of course there's a sense in which you
can have this discussion
first and foremost and explicitly for
his victims for his presumed victims for
the women you're imagining who are
suffering the consequences of his
conduct right but if you're gonna engage
in this conversation with him what you
were gonna try to philosophically and
ethically break down the difficult
questions of responsibility that are
involved here my my crucial advice to
you is for the purposes of this
conversation for the purposes of this
outreach education and activism
you can see on one with this just like
talking to a stranger on the street
about wearing
they're wearing fur I think you've
really got to do it out of a sort of
love for him like look I'm gonna try to
explain to you why this is ethically
wrong for your benefit it's for you it's
because ultimately the question I'm
asking is what kind of person do you
want to be and I'm telling you out of
love for you in your best interests I
want you to be a better person I want
you to be a person who does the right
thing I want you to be another person
who even understands there was a
question here about doing the right
thing and you're gonna try to educate
him and bring him up to that level it is
very easy by contrast for vegans to talk
to meat-eaters or people wearing fur be
wearing leather as if their purpose is
to represent the victims as if their
purpose is to walk up to somebody and
say hey don't you realize the fur coat
you're wearing those animals were killed
by putting an electrode up their anus
here I have a picture I have a videotape
of the horrible suffering that's behind
this fur coat
and were your whole attitude of engaging
with them is that you represent the
victims that you're doing something for
the animals we said all the time as
vegans or I'm doing something for
ecology for the planet for the
atmosphere etc etc of course I
understand why people have this attitude
of course I do
and my point is not that the victims or
the ecological consequences don't matter
but there is a discipline that I think
is central to real politics it contrasts
the fake politics or we set those things
aside say okay I'm gonna have this
conversation with you
for you for your benefit I'm gonna talk
to you about this in a in a sense to
make you a better person shouldn't even
put it that way I'm doing this with a
kind of love and indeed it is a very
cold love if you discover you know your
cousin is this kind of alcoholic rapist
living in this dissolute manner it's
probably it's probably gonna be a
challenge to muster up this charitable
sense of cold love for him and say hey I
want to talk to you about doing the
right thing because it's the right thing
to do which you've got to do it with
love and in the same way to reach out to
people in activism in politics and say
I'm doing this out of love for the
people concern for the person concern
for you I'm tryna act gets you to ask
what kind of person do you want to be
etc again I already mentioned this has
real parallels with drug policy and
what-have-you so patreon donations
fundraising they really imperil the most
basic assumptions of what education
outreach activism politics of content
creation is all about I was very very
reluctant to allow advertising of any
kind on this channel only people have
been with this channel from the very
first days we'll remember that there was
a long period where there were no
advertisements at all and then very
minimal advertisements boy filter
shouldn't be that that conflict conflict
of interest there I'll come back to that
when I opened my patreon for patreon
supporters I insisted everyone pay only
one dollar don't pay more than one
dollar my motives arriving the patient I
really wanted to be across roads people
would meet each other not really for
revenue generation for the channel at
all these mixed feelings about that I
struggled a lot with this with this
question but what it really comes down
to you here is the problem of one people
perceiving you as being motivated by
money and believe me even if you're
making only 100 dollars people will
perceive this and to the problem of
people actually being motivated by money
right so if I know for a fact that I can
make more money with a
political criticism of Jordan Peterson
and of course and over-the-top very
dramatic criticism of Jordan Peterson
that will generate money directly here
on YouTube not even getting into patreon
donation and of course another video
discussing Aristotle Socrates Athenian
democracy political philosophy it's
gonna generate nothing at all I am NOT
the kind of person who is motive above
that and guess what probably my very
next video of coming up I've got more
videos talking about political
philosophy of Aristotle from ancient
Greece I'm gonna have more videos that
I'm in political philosophy but when I
open up YouTube and it tells me how much
money I'm making on each video which it
does I can see that by far exponentially
the last video I made saying that Jordan
Peterson was an idiot made much more
money many people not all I think most
people they will be strongly influenced
with that whether or not they are
whether or not you perceive them as
being influenced by money you have the
reality of being influenced about money
right and the perception itself of
course can be a very powerful thing I
got a question from closed at
plant-based news asking me to talk about
this issue in particular how patreon is
changing the game whether patreon is a
good thing or a bad thing and I wrote
back to him and said point one patreon
works poorly as a platform for activism
because it was not designed to be a
platform for political activism okay
it was designed to replace the tip jar
feature on many websites and to be more
suitable for the arts and I note here
the arts really means
entertainment in comparison to
crowdfunding websites like Kickstarter
however the fact that it works poorly
for political activism doesn't mean that
individual activists have a better
alternative it may be the best option
you've got so let's just mention a
project I've wanted to get off the
for quite some time I put up a series of
videos about a storybook storybook
originally written in Chinese I
translated in from Chinese to English
and then other people translated into
other languages and this storybook in
its way raises for the the philosophical
question about veganism for children and
for parents to sit down and read it to
their children in a way that isn't gory
that isn't scary that is an age
inappropriate it's not like showing the
slaughterhouse footage to small children
and of course the next step was to find
an illustrator get the book Illustrated
and publish it now I'm not going to tell
you it's impossible for me to fund this
project through patreon through
donations whatever you do but look guys
if I go out on the street tomorrow and I
have my girlfriend hold a camera and I
just start a shouting match with let's
say a Muslim Imam or you know a Catholic
nun about veganism if I just say you
know I mean this is I'm using these
examples because they'll be more
dramatic if I go out and I there's a
Catholic nun on the street and we we
just start yelling at each other like
idiots about slaughtering animals for no
reason you know that one video alone
would generate more money both directly
here on YouTube and through donations
through patreon then you know frankly
I'm sorry but a much better idea
something artistic and creative it's
good for the movement and good for a lot
of things like illustrating that story
book right so come back to my original
image we're in a situation where real
politics real veganism real active isn't
the real movement starts to be consumed
overly influenced it starts to bend
under the influence of this kind of you
know secondary
what should be an echo of real politics
but increasingly isn't increasingly that
comes to take on the misleading
appearance of being the real thing and I
say again the distinction here isn't
about money versus no money money's a
motive in both cases if I want to
illustrate and publish that children's
storybook I'm also gonna need to spend
money on just to note when my father
died I thought I was going to inherit
enough money to print that children's
storybook my father had nine kids and I
inherited much less money than he told
me I was gonna inherit well that's what
happens do you have nine kids um that's
the way the cookie crumbles so in
reality the money I inherited for my
father I pretty much just spent moving
back to Canada after living in sharp
tears there was nothing there to get
that story book illustrated and
published so that's that is how that
turned out but whether it's that I'm
spending my father's money or asking for
donations both examples all examples
include spending money and even when you
talk about a hundred percent volunteer
forms of activism people are donating
time and they're spending money to be
there in reality even when everyone's a
volunteer there's still questions of
money involved okay point two is I wrote
to close patreon is vastly superior to
conventional fundraising in one
important respect I'm going to say that
again patreon is vastly superior to
conventional fundraising in one
important respect it allows donors to
talk to the person they're donating to
you'll never be able to talk to the
president of peda People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals nor even the
leaders of smaller organizations like
direct action everywhere or l214 in the
way that my patreon subscribers are able
to talk to me okay you can take any
example you want to if you donate money
to the Catholic Church you don't get to
talk to the Pope right if you donate
money to any given cause Greenpeace an
ecological cause a political party in
reality the level of Transpo
at sea or just just the capacity to ask
a question and get an answer
this is unparalleled what we have going
on right here right now and you know in
the past that did have allegations
against my channel I had allegations
that I was motivated by money and I was
able to answer those questions one on
one whether it was via youtube videos
via skype vitamin I was able to answer
people's concerns and you're very
unlikely to get that satisfaction with
any other model we have today in terms
of you know whether you think of this as
political activism entertainment or in a
worrying gray area that that makes us
the - okay my patreon supporters ask
questions and I make youtube videos in
reply sometimes I meet them in person
sometimes I do conversations by a Skype
or telephone or whatever but for the
most part YouTube is a is that medium
here and this type of interaction has
produced some of the most interesting
content on my channel politically
philosophically and personally this can
create transparency and accountability
or at least it creates the possibility
of transparency and accountability right
now of course that's not the only reason
for people to talk to me but politically
it's an important one to talk about here
and you know in the early days of my
channel people just wanted to know what
was my view on abortion what was my view
on feminism what was my view on a
variety of things and that is a form of
transparency in politics that matters
how well do you know the people you're
supporting how well do you know their
politics or what they're what they're
trying to accomplish or what have you
but yeah ultimately if someone we just
had a controversy with Tannen mojo if
someone wants to come on camera and lie
or evade the problem or evade the truth
you know you can ask them questions
whether or not they're their answers are
true is of course another matter okay
number three on this list here we're
applying to close from plant-based news
number three however there are counter
arguments even within the scope of this
conversation
I did a fundraiser for court case so I
asked for donations to support a court
case it was important in the vegan
movement at the time and I was able to
raise over $6,500 in about one day it
took a little more than 24 hours I was
able to do this because of the platform
of support had built up on patreon and a
course on YouTube however I was still
denounced and defamed by people
including plant-based news including
clothes personally
exactly the person who sent me this
email including his news channel here on
YouTube even though I was entirely open
accountable and transparent answering
questions about the progress of the
court case on patreon and YouTube
therefore we have a real example here of
how crowdfunding and patreon
specifically can basically destroy a
person's life and if a massively
dissuasive or negative effect on
activists themselves now I'm just gonna
pause for a second here I recently heard
Paul Beshear and Isaac Isaac used the
name ask yourself on YouTube so ask
yourself is Isaac Paul Bashir and Isaac
talking about Ian fighting within the
vegan movement and really what they
meant by infighting was one vegan
denouncing another one vegan defaming
another and the negative impacts this
disaster moment and it was striking to
me that is open with both of them
expressing pity for Gary Yourofsky Gary
Yourofsky is a famous and infamous
activist in in veganism and I had to ask
the question I just said it a text
message to Isaac's tonight and asked the
question
has anyone ever threatened to kill Gary
Yourofsky have had vegans threatened to
have him beaten up and dragged to a
courthouse dragged to a police station
where they would present evidence they
allegedly had
of of serious crimes you know sexual
crimes that they said he was guilty of
on the Internet as he had people
threatening to beat him up in the
streets drag him to a police station and
convict him with false evidence of
made-up evidence as he had people accuse
him of being a pedophile of being a
sexual predator of raping underage girls
because I had all of that and more as
Gary Yourofsky had people accuse him of
being a wife-beater of committing
financial fraud of carrying out fraud in
the scam the Internet is the same
fundraising for the core case has he had
all these things presented as fact and
and people falsely claiming they had
evidence to back it up
because I faced all of that and more
within the vegan movement and at every
stage idiots complete idiots would
dismiss my side of the story and try to
vindicate the other side of the story by
claiming that I was only motivated by
money now this is despair the fact like
on patreon I was making maybe two
hundred dollars a month at the time you
know it changed a little bit but the
amounts of money involved were very very
small it was like you really think and
and the amount of money I was spending
on airplane tickets was huge it was like
whoa come on you know I had a job I just
moved to China
how could you possibly imagine that my
side of it it's motive money and but you
know two horrible terrible lies about my
personal life about my mother about for
some reason was always my mother not my
father
but whatever but about my ex-wife about
my daughter about my family life but and
above all else
obviously the element that went to court
the allegation that I was a pedophile
and a sexual predator these were really
unbelievably you know harsh forms of
defamation and I don't think Gary
Yourofsky ever injured anything like
that I'm aware I'm aware of the kind of
controversy that that's surrounding him
I followed his career through its last
several years and then he gave up and
quit
guess what I didn't give up and and by
the way if you guys don't know the story
of course you can see the story when I
was accused I offered to go to the
police station I said ok if you you say
you have evidence giimpse against me you
say you have charges against me you say
you're gonna beat me up and dragged me
to the police station I wrote back to
the person make the accusations ok let's
meet at the police station I'll meet you
there
I knew these were lies I knew this was
defamation I knew these were false
claims being made and of course for some
mysterious reason what I was told back
in reply was no no no they didn't want
to go to the police station they just
wanted to meet me and beat me up
so I've faced this kind of violence I've
seen the war stupidity of the vegan
community and again when I heard Paul
Bashir and and Isaac talking about this
I don't know you know it's great that
you have compassion for Gary Yourofsky
but what I went through was much much
worse and it shows the danger the real
danger of getting involved with this
kind of activism especially once the
money motive is involved especially once
you open yourself up to this kind of
criticism because you're generating
revenue through donations or through
patreon now in numerous other ways there
are movements being torn apart by
allegations and questions about where
does the money go I just read out a
comment from a viewer the other day
asking about Paul Bashir's organization
cube of truth anonymous for the
voiceless asking but where does the
money go there questions are hounding
Wayne Young over a direct action
everywhere about where does the money go
there to what extent are these
organizations motivated by money and
simply to what extent are they
accountable for the money in some cases
those questions are going to be
reasonable and in some cases they're
going to be unreasonable but you better
be prepared to answer those questions in
my case it was dirt simple I got these
donations I handed over the donations to
the lawyer to the law firm there's
nothing else to be accounted for much
more complex than meat I mean this did
all my donations were for a single a
single purchase a single to pay for a
single court case a single event in one
lump sum so this was really very easy
for me to clear my name but still I got
this question from closed at plant-based
news and closed
you yourself were dead wrong in this you
defame me on your new show you subscribe
to the stupidest hypothesis possible
which was that the whole court case the
whole conflict was a sham motivated by
money as if I would participate in
denouncing myself on the internet i'ma
I'm a divorced parent I have a
five-year-old daughter as if I would put
these horrible rumors and accusations on
the internet against myself just to
generate like $200 it's it's insane and
clothes you bought it
plant-based news you took that story
forward to tens of thousands of viewers
and you defamed me further you were that
stupid he wasn't the only one sir I know
here so you know in addition to German
writer vegan cheetah Charles Marlow Joe
vegan all these other channels got into
this act of recycling these incredibly
stupid rumors trying to defame me and
discredit me and engaging me pardon
pardon me they defame me and they
discredited me again and again on the
basis that whatever I was saying was
motivated by money that I was somehow
engaging in fraud or a scam that was
really important to the illusion that
they were weaving in their own minds
after the public was that you know even
though what I was saying I thought it
was obviously more credible than what
turn writer was saying sir I mean it
covered so many things including just
the stamps in my passport there were
lies about a million different things
involved and it was very easy for me to
show the stamps in my passport was very
easy for me to show documentary proof
and evidence of what was really going on
but the notion that um I was I was
fabricating this evidence for the money
motive that was a powerful distortion
powerful bias in those events as they
unfolded okay that went on and on and
that involved over a hundred thousand
people you can pretend this was a small
thing a blip in history the vegan
movement I hope so I hope so guys
because let me tell you something I
don't in my life it's not gonna be
forgotten
it's still a problem when I apply for
jobs it's still a problem when I first
met my girlfriend's parents you know
when I make new friends or you know
again like my girlfriend's relatives new
people come into my life what they see
on the Internet are these ugly
allegations against me scam artist wife
beater or cult leader sexual predator
that's on the internet forever it was
backed up by you clothes it was backed
up by plant-based news you bought it
hook line and sinker and it's not
plausible but you thought that whole
story was quote unquote
a scam for money through your words so
there's the ultimate warning about when
we mix money with politics I mean all
charity involves money all charity is
donation driven but there are real
dangers and most people will be well
advised not to take the risks that I
take not even and stepping forward and
trying to do something as wholesome and
positive as getting a children's
storybook illustration okay guys let's
come back to first principles and then
call this a wrap when you reach out to
people in real world activism you've got
to do it from a place of love whether
you're doing that on the street with a
complete stranger at the office with a
co-worker with your own mother or what
have you but I say again it is a very
cold love because it is a type of love
that involves to be blunt moral
superiority and moral inferiority
exactly what you are explained to them
is why one set of choices is morally
inferior morally irresponsible and
another one is morally superior morally
responsible but you've got to discipline
yourself to engage in that discourse out
of love for that person themselves the
person who's receiving the message
you're not in that moment in that act in
that moment of activism outreach
education engagement you're not doing it
for the animals you can't do it with
range or outrage or sorrow thinking
about a cow bleeding into a trough or
even holding up that picture or what
have you
shock value I've had separate videos
talking with us I think what we're doing
here it's not in any way shocked is a is
a short-term solution and for the
purpose of this video it's a distraction
from the theme I I want to talk about a
real politics well if you're asking what
is the difference between real and fake
it's not the difference between asking
for donations and not asking for
donations it's not the difference
between a purely philosophical or ideal
pursuit of politics akin to a purely
philosophical or ideal pursuit of
architecture and something that involves
money the free market consumer
satisfaction and real-world outcomes and
it's also not simply the difference
between the thing itself the criticism
appreciation discussion of the thing and
people engaging in debates about what
the future of the thing ought to be
again whether it's architecture veganism
politics or even a religion like
Buddhism or or what-have-you
these things are all inextricably bound
up in one another I really think the
criterion of the real the difference
between what's real and what's fake
is exactly that hard to touch quality of
love cold love you've got a struggle
you've got to discipline yourself to
keep that love in the game I may be
sitting on this microphone right now
because I'm paid to be sitting here
right but the message I'm delivering to
you I've got to believe I've got a feel
that it's genuinely for your benefit
that that I'm delivering this that this
is something that's making your life
better and that's not reaching out for
you the microphone this is recorded on
some people used to complain about my
quality this cost over $200 this was
paid for by donations from patrons like
you I have a new video camera arriving I
think in the next 10 days
I think again over $200 paid for by
donations from patrons like you there is
a real sense in which this video right
now and even the next video I do on
Aristotle it's not X trickable it's not
separable from money because we've
opened this door to having advertising
donations and so on
the possibility of this being a pure art
form is closed but we've got to think
about especially with activism with
politics but even with political
philosophy talking about Aristotle is
different from talking about street
activism I know but in some ways it's
it's similar exactly the meaning of the
word real when I say keeping it real is
that struggle to keep it rooted in a
sense of love for the recipient for the
beneficiary for the target audience and
when you can't do that that's when you
need to take yourself off the street
that's we need to take yourself out of
the demonstration or take yourself off
camera and you need to re-examine the
tactics the message you're delivering
who you're delivering it to and how
because when you're really honest with
yourself when you're examining what it
is you're doing if it's not motivated by
love from my perspective it doesn't
matter whether or not it's motivated by
money some other set of motives what
you're doing is not real politics or by
my standards it's not real
enough